---
title: Accounts
date: 2024-04-16
categories: [Cyber Security Fundamentals]
tags: 
author: Harmehar Kaur
image:
  path: /assets/cyber-prefix.png
  alt: 
---
XVII.	Accounts: 
•	situations that call for provisioning new user accounts or changing privileges include: 
o	New Employee: When a new employee is hired, the hiring manager sends a request to the security administrator to create a new user ID. This request authorizes the creation of the new ID and provides instructions on appropriate access levels. Additional authorization may be required by company policy for elevated permissions.
o	Change of Position: When an employee is promoted, their permissions and access rights might change as defined by the new role, which will dictate any added privileges and updates to access. At the same time, any access that is no longer needed in the new job will be removed.
o	Separation of Employment: When employees leave the company, depending on company policy and procedures, their accounts must be disabled after the termination date and time. It is recommended that accounts be disabled for a period before they are deleted to preserve the integrity of any audit trails or files that may be owned by the user. Since the account will no longer be used, it should be removed from any security roles or additional access profiles. This protects the company, as the separated employee is unable to access company data after separation; it also protects them because their account cannot be used by others to access data
•	Authorized personnel
•	Unauthorized personnel. 
•	Privileged users: 
o	Privileged accounts are those with permissions beyond those of normal users, such as managers and administrators. these accounts have elevated privileges and are used by many different classes of users, including:
	Systems administrators, who have the principal responsibilities for operating systems, applications deployment, and performance management.	
	Help desk or IT support staff, who often need to view or manipulate endpoints, servers, and applications platforms by using privileged or restricted operations.
	Security analysts, who may require rapid access to the entire IT infrastructure, systems, endpoints, and data environment of the organization.
o	Other classes of privileged user accounts may be created on a per-client or per-project basis, to allow a member of that project or client service team to have greater control over data and applications. These few examples indicate that organizations often need to delegate the capability to manage and protect information assets to various managers, supervisors, leadership, or support staff with differing levels of authority and responsibility. This delegation, of course, should be contingent upon trustworthiness, since misuse or abuse of these privileges could lead to harm for the organization and its stakeholders.
o	Typical measures used for moderating the potential for elevated risks from misuse or abuse of privileged accounts include the following:
	More extensive and detailed logging than regular user accounts. The record of privileged actions is vitally important as both a deterrent (for privileged account holders that might be tempted to engage in untoward activity) and an administrative control (the logs can be audited and reviewed to detect and respond to malicious activity).
	More stringent access control than regular user accounts. Even non-privileged users should be required to use MFA methods to gain access to organizational systems and networks. Privileged users—or more accurately, highly trusted users with access to privileged accounts—should be required to go through additional or more rigorous authentication prior to gaining those privileges. Just-in-time identity should also be considered a way to restrict the use of these privileges to specific tasks and the times at which the user is executing them.
	Deeper trust verification than regular user accounts. Privileged account holders should be subject to more detailed background checks, stricter non-disclosure agreements and acceptable use policies, and be willing to be subject to financial investigation. Periodic or event-triggered updates to these background checks may also be in order, depending on the nature of the organization’s activities and the risks it faces.
	More auditing than regular user accounts. Privileged account activity should be monitored and audited at a greater rate and extent than regular usage.
•	Mechanisms related to management of these: 
o	Privilege access management:
	Managing the privileged access given to the accounts and giving only the required amount at the time and then revoking it. 
		Privileged access management provides the first and perhaps most familiar use case. Consider a human user identity that is granted various create, read, update, and delete privileges on a database. Without privileged access management, the system’s access control would have those privileges assigned to the administrative user in a static way, effectively “on” 24 hours a day, every day. Security would be dependent upon the login process to prevent misuse of that identity. Just-in-time privileged access management, by contrast, includes role-based specific subsets of privileges that only become active in real time when the identity is requesting the use of a resource or service.
o	Separation of duties:
	A core element of authorization is the principle of separation of duties (also known as segregation of duties). Separation of duties is based on the security practice that no one person should control an entire high-risk transaction from start to finish. Separation of duties breaks the transaction into separate parts and requires a different person to execute each part of the transaction. For example, an employee may submit an invoice for payment to a vendor (or for reimbursement to themselves), but it must be approved by a manager prior to payment; in another instance, almost anyone may submit a proposal for a change to a system configuration, but the request must go through technical and management review and gain approval before it can be implemented.
	These steps can prevent fraud or detect an error in the process before implementation. It could be that the same employee might be authorized to originally submit invoices regarding one set of activities but not approve them, and yet also have approval authority but not the right to submit invoices on another. It is possible, of course, that two individuals can wilfully work together to bypass the separation of duties to jointly commit fraud. This is called collusion.
	Another implementation of separation of duties is dual control. This would apply at a bank where there are two separate combination locks on the door of the vault. Some personnel know one of the combinations and some know the other, but no one person knows both combinations. Two people must work together to open the vault; thus, the vault is under dual control.
	Two-Person Integrity: The two-person rule is a security strategy that requires a minimum of two people to be in an area together, making it impossible for a person to be in the area alone. Many access control systems prevent an individual cardholder from entering a selected high-security area unless accompanied by at least one other person. Use of the two-person rule can help reduce insider threats to critical areas by requiring at least two individuals to be present at any time. It is also used for life safety within a security area; if one person has a medical emergency, there will be assistance present.
o	Least privilege: 
	To preserve the confidentiality of information and ensure that it is only available to personnel who are authorized to see it, we use privileged access management, which is based on the principle of least privilege. That means each user is granted access to only the items they need and nothing further. Sometimes it is necessary to allow users to access the information via temporary or limited access, for instance, for a specific time period or just within normal business hours. Or access rules can limit the fields that the individuals can have access to. 
	Privileged access management implements the principle of least privilege by granting each user access only to the items they need.
