---
title: 
date: 
categories: 
tags: 
author: 
image:
  path: 
  alt: 
---
I.	Password Attacks: 
	Any of the different ways used to maliciously authenticate into password-protected accounts is referred to as a password attack. These assaults are frequently aided by the use of software that speeds up the cracking or guessing of passwords.
	To retrieve passwords from computer systems, password cracking techniques are utilized. 
	Password-cracking techniques are used by attackers to obtain unauthorized access to the vulnerable system.
	The majority of password cracking techniques are effective owing to passwords that are weak or easily guessable
	Types of Password Attacks
o	Phishing: It's a scam that tries to steal your money or your identity by tricking you into revealing personal information like credit card numbers, bank account details, or passwords on phony websites.
o	Man-In-The-Middle Attack: A man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack occurs when a perpetrator inserts himself into a communication between a user and an application, either to listen in or to mimic one of the parties, making it appear as if a normal information exchange is taking place.
o	Brute Force Attack: In this attack, the attacker tries to guess the password by trying millions of passwords by testing every combination of digits, letters, punctuation symbols, and special symbols.
o	Credential Stuffing: Credential stuffing is the automated injection of stolen username and password pairs (credentials) into website login forms in order to obtain access to user accounts unlawfully.
o	Keyloggers: Keyloggers are malicious programs that record every keystroke and send the information to a hacker. Typically, a person will download the software expecting it to be safe, only to discover that it has installed a keylogger without their knowledge.
	Password Attack Prevention Steps
o	Check the source from which the mail has come
o	Enable encryption on the router
o	Use Virtual Private Network or VPN
o	Use complex passwords
o	Use Multi-Factor Authentication
o	Use a Password Manager
	Password protection: 
o	We all use multiple passwords and systems. Many password managers store passwords so that a user does not have to remember all their security codes for multiple systems. The greatest disadvantage of these solutions is the risk of compromise of the password manager.	
o	These password managers may be protected by a weak password or passphrase chosen by the user and easily compromised. There have been many cases where a person’s private data was stored by a cloud provider but easily accessed by unauthorized persons through password compromise. Organizations should encourage the use of different passwords for different systems and should provide a recommended password management solution for its users. 
o	Examples of poor password protection that should be avoided are:
	Reusing passwords for multiple systems, especially using the same password for business and personal use.
	Writing down passwords and leaving them in unsecured areas.
	Sharing a password with tech support or a co-worker.
	Password cracking techniques:
o	Dictionary Attack
o	Brute-force attack
o	Hybrid attack
o	Syllable Attack: It combine both brute force and dictionary attack and is employed when the password is made up of a mix of letters and syllables. 
o	Rule-based attack: Analogous to a programming language built exclusively for generating password candidates.  
o	Rainbow attack: the list can be compared to any encrypted passwords found in a company's system by hackers. When the password is saved it is encrypted with a hash, or cryptographic alias, which makes determining the original password difficult.  
o	Shoulder surfing: Hackers peeking over the shoulders of victim to steal critical papers and passwords are 2 extreme instances.
o	Spidering: spidering is the technique by which hackers get to know their targets thoroughly to get passwords based on their behaviour. This method is extremely like phishing and social engineering approaches.  
o	Network analysers: Hackers can use network analyzers to monitor and intercept data packets flowing over a network to get plain text passwords. 
o	Mask attack: Mask attacks are significantly more precise in their scope than dictionary attacks, which employ lists of all conceivable phrases and word combinations. 
o	Social engineering
o	Password guessing: A hacker can always try to guess your password if everything else fails. Some people continue to use passwords that are familiar and easy to remember. 
o	Phishing attack
o	Dumpster diving
