---
title: ELK for log analysis 
date: 
categories: 
tags: 
author: 
image:
  path: 
  alt: 
---

Elasticsearch is a distributed search and analytics engine, scalable data store, and vector database built on Apache Lucene. It’s optimized for speed and relevance on production-scale workloads. Use Elasticsearch to search, index, store, and analyze data of all shapes and sizes in near real time. Kibana is the graphical user interface for Elasticsearch. It’s a powerful tool for visualizing and analyzing your data, and for managing and monitoring the Elastic Stack.

Elasticsearch is the heart of the Elastic Stack. Combined with Kibana, it powers these Elastic solutions and use cases:

Elasticsearch: Build powerful search and RAG applications using Elasticsearch's vector database, AI toolkit, and advanced retrieval capabilities.
Observability: Resolve problems with open, flexible, and unified observability powered by advanced machine learning and analytics.
Security: Detect, investigate, and respond to threats with AI-driven security analytics to protect your organization at scale.

deployment options available 
Quick start options

Elastic Cloud: Get a hosted solution up and running in minutes.
Elastic Cloud Hosted: Our hosted Elastic Stack offering, deployed in the cloud with your provider of choice. Sign up for a 14-day free trial.
Elastic Cloud Serverless: Create serverless projects for autoscaled and fully managed Elastic deployments. Sign up for a 14-day free trial.
Local development: Get started quickly with Elasticsearch and Kibana in Docker for local development and testing.
Advanced options

Self-managed: Install, configure, and run Elastic on your own premises.
Elastic Cloud Enterprise: Deploy Elastic Cloud on public or private clouds, virtual machines, or your own premises.
Elastic Cloud on Kubernetes: Deploy Elastic Cloud on Kubernetes.

solutions offered
xplore the solutions
Elasticsearch supports diverse use cases. Select a solution and follow its dedicated getting-started guide:

elasticsearch	Elasticsearch
Create seamless search experiences for apps, websites, or workplaces.

Get started →
observability	Observability
Monitor logs, metrics, and traces to gain insight into your systems.

Get started →
security	Security
Monitor logs, metrics, and traces to gain insight into your systems.

Get started →

use cases
Use cases

The Elastic Stack is used for a wide and growing range of use cases. Here are a few examples:

Elasticsearch
Full-text search: Build a fast, relevant full-text search solution using inverted indexes, tokenization, and text analysis.
Vector database: Store and search vectorized data, and create vector embeddings with built-in and third-party natural language processing (NLP) models.
Semantic search: Understand the intent and contextual meaning behind search queries using tools like synonyms, dense vector embeddings, and learned sparse query-document expansion.
Hybrid search: Combine full-text search with vector search using state-of-the-art ranking algorithms.
Build search experiences: Add hybrid search capabilities to apps or websites, or build enterprise search engines over your organization’s internal data sources.
Retrieval augmented generation (RAG): Use Elastic Cloud as a retrieval engine to supplement generative AI models with more relevant, up-to-date, or proprietary data for a range of use cases.
Geospatial search: Search for locations and calculate spatial relationships using geospatial queries.
Get started with Elasticsearch →

Observability
Logs, metrics, and traces: Collect, store, and analyze logs, metrics, and traces from applications, systems, and services.
Application performance monitoring (APM): Monitor and analyze the performance of business-critical software applications.
Real user monitoring (RUM): Monitor, quantify, and analyze user interactions with web applications.
OpenTelemetry: Reuse your existing instrumentation to send telemetry data to the Elastic Stack using the OpenTelemetry standard.
Get started with Observability →

Security
Security information and event management (SIEM): Collect, store, and analyze security data from applications, systems, and services.
Endpoint security: Monitor and analyze endpoint security data.
Threat hunting: Search and analyze data to detect and respond to security threats.
Get started with Elastic Security →

This is just a sample of search, observability, and security use cases enabled by Elastic Cloud. Refer to Elastic customer success stories for concrete examples across a range of industries.
