---
title: 
date: 
categories: 
tags: 
author: 
image:
  path: 
  alt: 
---
Two Factor Authentication
An icon of a bank card, fingerprint and password on a phone screen
Popular online services, such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Apple and Microsoft, use two factor authentication to add an extra layer of security for account logins.

Besides your username and password or personal identification number (PIN), two factor authentication requires a second token to verify your identity. This may be a:

physical object such as a credit card, mobile phone or fob
biometric scan such as a fingerprint or facial and voice recognition
verification code sent via SMS or email.
Click here to find out more about two factor authentication.

Open Authorization
Open authorization (OAuth) is an open standard protocol that allows you to use your credentials to access third-party applications without exposing your password.

Select the arrows to see what this means in practice.

A login screen with a female person icon with 11 dots in the password fieldA login screen with a pop up box with the text, Forgot your password? Login with. And the logos for LinkedIn, Google, Facebook and GitHub are presented.A red button with the words get started with an arrow pointer clicking on it
chevron_right
You are looking forward to registering for Cisco’s ‘Cybersecurity Essentials,’ the next course in this series, to help you develop your career. But you must be logged into the eLearning portal to do so.

Don't Get Spoofed
A simple forged or spoofed email can lead to a massive data breach and perhaps cause irreversible damage to your reputation.

Email and Web Browser Privacy
These problems can be minimized by enabling the in-private browsing mode on your web browser. Many of the most commonly used web browsers have their own name for private browser mode:

Microsoft Internet Explorer: InPrivate

Google Chrome: Incognito

Mozilla Firefox: Private tab or private window

Safari: Private browsing

Select the image to find out how private mode works.

elect the image to find out how private mode works.



touch_app
When private mode is enabled, cookies — files saved to your device to indicate what websites you’ve visited — are disabled. Therefore, any temporary internet files are removed and your browsing history is deleted when you close the window or program. This may help to prevent others from gathering information about your online activities and trying to entice you to buy something with targeted ads.

Even with private browsing enabled and cookies disabled, companies are constantly developing new ways of fingerprinting users in order to track their online behavior. For example, some intermediary devices, like routers, can gather information about a user’s web surfing history.
